BAD SECTOR successful.

     BAD SECTOR has been out for two months now and the success of
the mag is more than this author expected. Despite the two week delay
in the first issue for no apparent reason everything is going well.
This writer had to write or find all the articles because no one has
submitted anything.
A person known as Don Karnage (02/94; McDonald) submitted a story.
Don is also serving twelve years for flogging his parents to death
with two sticks of Beef jerky. This author had to write the other
articles with pseudonyms as to make it appear that all kinds of
authors and writers are submitting.
The first issue was slightly humorous.  Having vowed to make each issue
funnier and funnier, this historian feels the second issue is quite
humorous.
The one problem that may face this magazine is possible copyright
infringement.  Once and awhile a text file will come across my computer
that must be shown to the world.  Having no legal knowledge or expertise
this writer feels that it's OK. If anyone read the second issue, one
will see a scoring article about the FBI and computer crime. There was
no copyright notice on the news article and believe that since the
numbers were so far off from reality that it may be considered fantasy
or fiction (see 03/94) or possibly written on another planet in a
                                galaxy
                            far, far away.

     This Male Lesbian is going to make some changes around here. A
new reader format for instance and all sorts of little neatism's. A
flesch-reading ease score for every article and a Gunnings Fog index.
The grade level of each article will be displayed after each article
in the bottom left-foot corner.

    A friend of this astronomer will be posting this magazine on
internet. Having no experience with internet or care this journalist
hopes that it increases the popualrity of the magazine.
This mag is a big hit in Belgium and a small villiage in Hungry. They
even translate it and put it in the paper. Two days later, however,
the villiage was hit by a freak typhoon. The people in belgium finally
figured out it was in english.

Note: The repeated references by this writer to himself as a third
person is to eliminate using "I" and because this researcher is insane.

Flesch Reading Ease:     72
Flesch-Kincaid Grade:    7
Gunnings Fog Index:      9
